I am a Hazara , and the homeland of my people is Afghanistan .
The ongoing persecution and operation against the Hazaras forced my parents to leave Afghanistan .
This persecution has had a long history going back to the late 1800s , and the rule of King Abdur Rahman .
He killed 63 percent of the Hazara population .
He built minarets with their heads .
Many Hazaras were sold into slavery , and many others fled the country for neighboring Iran and Pakistan .
My parents also fled to Pakistan , and settled in Quetta , where I was born .
I was only 18 , and I got a job working as an interpreter .
After four years , I felt it was safe enough to move to Afghanistan permanently , and I was working there as a documentary photographer , and I worked on many stories .
One of the most important stories that I did was the dancing boys of Afghanistan .
It is a tragic story about an appalling tradition .
It involves young kids dancing for warlords and powerful men in the society .
These boys are often abducted or bought from their poor parents , and they are put to work as sex slaves .
This is Shukur .
He was kidnapped from Kabul by a warlord .
He was taken to another province , where he was forced to work as a sex slave for the warlord and his friends .
When this story was published in the Washington Post , I started receiving death threats , and I was forced to leave Afghanistan , as my parents were .
Along with my family , I returned back to Quetta .
The situation in Quetta had changed dramatically since I left in 2005 .
Once a peaceful haven for the Hazaras , it had now turned into the most dangerous city in Pakistan .
Hazaras are confined into two small areas , and they are marginalized socially , educationally , and financially .
This is Nadir .
I had known him since my childhood .
He was injured when his van was ambushed by terrorists in Quetta .
He later died of his injuries .
Around 1,600 Hazara members had been killed in various attacks , and around 3,000 of them were injured , and many of them permanently disabled .
The attacks on the Hazara community would only get worse , so it was not surprising that many wanted to flee .
After Afghanistan , Iran , Pakistan , Australia is home to the fourth largest population of Hazaras in the world .
When it came time to leave Pakistan , Australia seemed the obvious choice .
Financially , only one of us could leave , and it was decided that I would go , in the hope that if I arrived at my destination safely , I could work to get the rest of my family to join me later .
We all knew about the risks , and how terrifying the journey is , and I met many people who lost loved ones at sea .
It was a desperate decision to take , to leave everything behind , and no one makes this decision easily .
If I had been able to simply fly to Australia , it would have taken me less than 24 hours .
But getting a visa was impossible .
In Indonesia , I joined a group of seven asylum seekers .
We all shared a bedroom in a town outside of Jakarta called Bogor .
After spending a week in Bogor , three of my roommates left for the perilous journey , and we got the news two days later that a distressed boat sank in the sea en route to Christmas Island .
We found out that our three roommates — Nawroz , Jaffar and Shabbir — were also among those .
Only Jaffar was rescued .
Shabbir and Nawroz were never seen again .
It made me think , am I doing the right thing ?
I concluded I really had no other choice but to go on .
A few weeks later , we got the call from the people smuggler to alert us that the boat is ready for us to commence our sea journey .
Taken in the night towards the main vessel on a motorboat , we boarded an old fishing boat that was already overloaded .
There were 93 of us , and we were all below deck .
No one was allowed up on the top .
We all paid 6,000 dollars each for this part of the trip .
The first night and day went smoothly , but by the second night , the weather turned .
Waves tossed the boat around , and the timbers groaned .
People below deck were crying , praying , recalling their loved ones .
They were screaming .
It was a terrible moment .
It was like a scene from doomsday , or maybe like one of those scenes from those Hollywood movies that shows that everything is breaking apart and the world is just ending .
It was happening to us for real .
We didn 't have any hope .
Our boat was floating like a matchbox on the water without any control .
The waves were much higher than our boat , and the water poured in faster than the motor pumps could take it out .
We all lost hope .
We thought , this is the end .
We were watching our deaths , and I was documenting it .
The captain told us that we are not going to make it , we have to turn back the boat .
We went on the deck and turned our torches on and off to attract the attention of any passing boat .
We kept trying to attract their attention by waving our life jackets and whistling .
Eventually , we made it to a small island .
Our boat crashing onto the rocks , I slipped into the water and destroyed my camera , whatever I had documented .
But luckily , the memory card survived .
It was a thick forest .
We all split up into many groups as we argued over what to do next .
We were all scared and confused .
Then , after spending the night on the beach , we found a jetty and coconuts .
We hailed a boat from a nearby resort , and then were quickly handed over to Indonesian water police .
At Serang Detention Center , an immigration officer came and furtively strip-searched us .
He took our mobile , my $ 300 cash , our shoes that we should not be able to escape , but we kept watching the guards , checking their movements , and around 4 a.m. when they sat around a fire , we removed two glass layers from an outside facing window and slipped through .
We climbed a tree next to an outer wall that was topped with the shards of glass .
We put the pillow on that and wrapped our forearms with bedsheets and climbed the wall , and we ran away with bare feet .
I was free , with an uncertain future , no money .
The only thing I had was the memory card with the pictures and footage .
When my documentary was aired on SBS Dateline , many of my friends came to know about my situation , and they tried to help me .
They did not allow me to take any other boat to risk my life .
I also decided to stay in Indonesia and process my case through UNHCR , but I was really afraid that I would end up in Indonesia for many years doing nothing and unable to work , like every other asylum seeker .
But it had happened to be a little bit different with me .
I was lucky .
My contacts worked to expedite my case through UNHCR , and I got resettled in Australia in May 2013 .
Not every asylum seeker is lucky like me .
It is really difficult to live a life with an uncertain fate , in limbo .
The issue of asylum seekers in Australia has been so extremely politicized that it has lost its human face .
The asylum seekers have been demonized and then presented to the people .
I hope my story and the story of other Hazaras could shed some light to show the people how these people are suffering in their countries of origin , and how they suffer , why they risk their lives to seek asylum .
Thank you .
This is the Natural History Museum in Rotterdam , where I work as a curator .
It 's my job to make sure the collection stays okay , and that it grows , and basically it means I collect dead animals .
Back in 1995 , we got a new wing next to the museum .
It was made of glass , and this building really helped me to do my job good .
The building was a true bird-killer .
You may know that birds don 't understand the concept of glass . They don 't see it , so they fly into the windows and get killed .
The only thing I had to do was go out , pick them up , and have them stuffed for the collection .
( Laughter ) And in those days , I developed an ear to identify birds just by the sound of the bangs they made against the glass .
And it was on June 5 , 1995 , that I heard a loud bang against the glass that changed my life and ended that of a duck .
And this is what I saw when I looked out of the window .
This is the dead duck . It flew against the window .
It 's laying dead on its belly .
But next to the dead duck is a live duck , and please pay attention .
Both are of the male sex .
And then this happened .
The live duck mounted the dead duck , and started to copulate .
Well , I 'm a biologist . I 'm an ornithologist .
I said , " " Something 's wrong here . " " One is dead , one is alive . That must be necrophilia .
I look . Both are of the male sex .
Homosexual necrophilia .
So I — ( Laughter ) I took my camera , I took my notebook , took a chair , and started to observe this behavior .
After 75 minutes — ( Laughter ) — I had seen enough , and I got hungry , and I wanted to go home .
So I went out , collected the duck , and before I put it in the freezer , I checked if the victim was indeed of the male sex .
And here 's a rare picture of a duck 's penis , so it was indeed of the male sex .
It 's a rare picture because there are 10,000 species of birds and only 300 possess a penis .
[ The first case of homosexual necrophilia in the mallard Anas platyrhynchos ( Aves : Anatidae ) ] I knew I 'd seen something special , but it took me six years to decide to publish it .
( Laughter ) I mean , it 's a nice topic for a birthday party or at the coffee machine , but to share this among your peers is something different .
I didn 't have the framework .
So after six years , my friends and colleagues urged me to publish , so I published " " The first case of homosexual necrophilia in the mallard . " " And here 's the situation again .
A is my office , B is the place where the duck hit the glass , and C is from where I watched it .
And here are the ducks again .
As you probably know , in science , when you write a kind of special paper , only six or seven people read it .
( Laughter ) But then something good happened .
I got a phone call from a person called Marc Abrahams , and he told me , " " You 've won a prize with your duck paper : the Ig Nobel Prize . " " And the Ig Nobel Prize — ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) — the Ig Nobel Prize honors research that first makes people laugh , and then makes them think , with the ultimate goal to make more people interested in science .
That 's a good thing , so I accepted the prize .
( Laughter ) I went — let me remind you that Marc Abrahams didn 't call me from Stockholm .
He called me from Cambridge , Massachusetts .
So I traveled to Boston , to Cambridge , and I went to this wonderful Ig Nobel Prize ceremony held at Harvard University , and this ceremony is a very nice experience .
Real Nobel laureates hand you the prize .
That 's the first thing .
And there are nine other winners who get prizes .
Here 's one of my fellow winners . That 's Charles Paxton who won the 2000 biology prize for his paper , " " Courtship behavior of ostriches towards humans under farming conditions in Britain . " " ( Laughter ) And I think there are one or two more Ig Nobel Prize winners in this room .
Dan , where are you ? Dan Ariely ?
Applause for Dan .
( Applause ) Dan won his prize in medicine for demonstrating that high-priced fake medicine works better than low-priced fake medicine .
( Laughter ) So here 's my one minute of fame , my acceptance speech , and here 's the duck .
This is its first time on the U.S. West Coast .
I 'm going to pass it around .
( Laughter ) Yeah ?
You can pass it around .
Please note it 's a museum specimen , but there 's no chance you 'll get the avian flu .
After winning this prize , my life changed .
In the first place , people started to send me all kinds of duck-related things , and I got a real nice collection .
( Laughter ) More importantly , people started to send me their observations of remarkable animal behavior , and believe me , if there 's an animal misbehaving on this planet , I know about it . ( Laughter )
This is a moose .
It 's a moose trying to copulate with a bronze statue of a bison .
This is in Montana , 2008 .
This is a frog that tries to copulate with a goldfish .
This is the Netherlands , 2011 .
These are cane toads in Australia .
This is roadkill .
Please note that this is necrophilia .
It 's remarkable : the position .
The missionary position is very rare in the animal kingdom .
These are pigeons in Rotterdam .
Barn swallows in Hong Kong , 2004 .
This is a turkey in Wisconsin on the premises of the Ethan Allen juvenile correctional institution .
It took all day , and the prisoners had a great time .
So what does this mean ?
I mean , the question I ask myself , why does this happen in nature ?
Well , what I concluded from reviewing all these cases is that it is important that this happens only when death is instant and in a dramatic way and in the right position for copulation .
At least , I thought it was till I got these slides .
And here you see a dead duck .
It 's been there for three days , and it 's laying on its back .
So there goes my theory of necrophilia .
Another example of the impact of glass buildings on the life of birds .
This is Mad Max , a blackbird who lives in Rotterdam .
The only thing this bird did was fly against this window from 2004 to 2008 , day in and day out .
Here he goes , and here 's a short video .
( Music ) ( Clunk ) ( Clunk ) ( Clunk ) ( Clunk ) So what this bird does is fight his own image .
He sees an intruder in his territory , and it 's coming all the time and he 's there , so there is no end to it .
And I thought , in the beginning — I studied this bird for a couple of years — that , well , shouldn 't the brain of this bird be damaged ?
It 's not . I show you here some slides , some frames from the video , and at the last moment before he hits the glass , he puts his feet in front , and then he bangs against the glass .
So I 'll conclude to invite you all to Dead Duck Day .
That 's on June 5 every year .
At five minutes to six in the afternoon , we come together at the Natural History Museum in Rotterdam , the duck comes out of the museum , and we try to discuss new ways to prevent birds from colliding with windows .
And as you know , or as you may not know , this is one of the major causes of death for birds in the world .
In the U.S. alone , a billion birds die in collision with glass buildings .
And when it 's over , we go to a Chinese restaurant and we have a six-course duck dinner .
So I hope to see you next year in Rotterdam , the Netherlands , for Dead Duck Day .
Thank you .
( Applause ) Oh , sorry .
May I have my duck back , please ?
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Thank you .
I 'm here to recruit men to support gender equality .
( Cheers ) Wait , wait . What ?
What do men have to do with gender equality ?
Gender equality is about women , right ?
I mean , the word gender is about women .
Actually , I 'm even here speaking as a middle class white man .
Now , I wasn 't always a middle class white man .
It all happened for me about 30 years ago when I was in graduate school , and a bunch of us graduate students got together one day , and we said , you know , there 's an explosion of writing and thinking in feminist theory , but there 's no courses yet .
So we did what graduate students typically do in a situation like that .
We said , OK , let 's have a study group .
We 'll read a text , we 'll talk about it , we 'll have a potluck dinner .
( Laughter ) So every week , 11 women and me got together . ( Laughter )
We would read some text in feminist theory and have a conversation about it .
And during one of our conversations , I witnessed an interaction that changed my life forever .
It was a conversation between two women .
One of the women was white , and one was black .
All women are similarly situated in patriarchy , and therefore all women have a kind of intuitive solidarity or sisterhood . " " And the black woman said , " " I 'm not so sure .
Because when I wake up in the morning and I look in the mirror , " " she said , " " I see a black woman .
To me , race is visible . But to you , race is invisible . You don 't see it . " " And then she said something really startling .
She said , " " That 's how privilege works .
Privilege is invisible to those who have it . " " It is a luxury , I will say to the white people sitting in this room , not to have to think about race every split second of our lives . Privilege is invisible to those who have it .
Now remember , I was the only man in this group ,
so when I witnessed this , I went , " " Oh no . " " ( Laughter ) And somebody said , " " Well what was that reaction ? " " And I said , " " Well , when I wake up in the morning and I look in the mirror , I see a human being .
I 'm kind of the generic person .
You know , I 'm a middle class white man . I have no race , no class , no gender .
I 'm universally generalizable . " " ( Laughter ) So I like to think that was the moment I became a middle class white man , that class and race and gender were not about other people , they were about me .
I had to start thinking about them , and it had been privilege that had kept it invisible to me for so long .
I have a colleague , and she and I both teach the sociology of gender course on alternate semesters .
So she gives a guest lecture for me when I teach .
I give a guest lecture for her when she teaches .
So I walk into her class to give a guest lecture , about 300 students in the room , and as I walk in , one of the students looks up and says , " Oh , finally , an objective opinion . "
All that semester , whenever my colleague opened her mouth , what my students saw was a woman .
I mean , if you were to say to my students , " There is structural inequality based on gender in the United States , " they 'd say , " " Well of course you 'd say that .
Is that going to be on the test ? How do you spell ' structural ' ? " " ( Laughter ) So I hope you all can see , this is what objectivity looks like .
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) Disembodied Western rationality . ( Laughter )
And that , by the way , is why I think men so often wear ties . ( Laughter )
Because if you are going to embody disembodied Western rationality , you need a signifier , and what could be a better signifier of disembodied Western rationality than a garment that at one end is a noose and the other end points to the genitals ?
( Laughter ) ( Applause ) That is mind-body dualism right there .
So making gender visible to men is the first step to engaging men to support gender equality .
But not all men .
Some men think — the lightning bolt goes off , and they go , " " Oh my God , yes , gender equality , " " and they will immediately begin to mansplain to you your oppression .
I was on a TV talk show opposite four white men .
This is the beginning of the book I wrote , ' Angry White Men . ' These were four angry white men who believed that they , white men in America , were the victims of reverse discrimination in the workplace .
It was a quote from one of the men , and the quote was , " A Black Woman Stole My Job . "
I want to know about the word ' my . ' Where did you get the idea it was your job ?
It is called " " the history of the world . " " ( Laughter ) ( Applause ) So , now I 've established some of the obstacles to engaging men , but why should we support gender equality ?
Of course , it 's fair , it 's right and it 's just .
But more than that , gender equality is also in our interest as men .
If you listen to what men say about what they want in their lives , gender equality is actually a way for us to get the lives we want to live .
Gender equality is good for countries .
It turns out , according to most studies , that those countries that are the most gender equal are also the countries that score highest on the happiness scale .
It is also good for companies .
Research by Catalyst and others has shown conclusively that the more gender-equal companies are , the better it is for workers , the happier their labor force is .
They have lower job turnover . They have lower levels of attrition .
They have an easier time recruiting .
They have higher rates of retention , higher job satisfaction , higher rates of productivity .
So the question I 'm often asked in companies is , " Boy , this gender equality thing , that 's really going to be expensive , huh ? "
And I say , " " Oh no , in fact , what you have to start calculating is how much gender inequality is already costing you .
It is extremely expensive . " " So it is good for business .
And the other thing is , it 's good for men .
I was talking , to give you an illustration of this change — Some of you may remember this .
When I was a lot younger , there was a riddle that was posed to us .
This riddle went something like this .
A man and his son are driving on the freeway , and they 're in a terrible accident , and the father is killed , and the son is brought to the hospital emergency room , and as they 're bringing the son into the hospital emergency room , the emergency room attending physician sees the boy and says , " Oh , I can 't treat him , that 's my son . "
How is this possible ?
We were flummoxed by this .
We could not figure this out .
So I decided I would pose this riddle to them , just to see , to gauge the level of change .
Well , 16-year-old boys , they immediately turned to me and said , " " It 's his mom . " " Right ?
No problem . Just like that .
Younger men today expect to be able to balance work and family .
They want to be dual-career , dual-carer couples .
They want to be able to balance work and family with their partners .
They want to be involved fathers .
Now , it turns out that the more egalitarian our relationships , the happier both partners are .
Data from psychologists and sociologists are quite persuasive here .
I think we have the persuasive numbers , the data , to prove to men that gender equality is not a zero-sum game , but a win-win .
Here 's what the data show .
Now , when men begin the process of engaging with balancing work and family , we often have two phrases that we use to describe what we do .
We pitch in and we help out .
Their children have lower rates of absenteeism , higher rates of achievement .
They are less likely to be diagnosed with ADHD .
They are less likely to see a child psychiatrist .
They are less likely to be put on medication .
Not only that , their wives are healthier .
Their wives are less likely to see a therapist , less likely to be diagnosed with depression , less likely to be put on medication , more likely to go to the gym , report higher levels of marital satisfaction .
They are less likely to go to the ER but more like to go to a doctor for routine screenings .
" " Housework Makes Her Horny .
These data were collected over a really long period of time .
It 's not a win-lose .
It is a win-win for everyone .
And what we also know is we cannot fully empower women and girls unless we engage boys and men .
We know this .
And this was the first line of that article : " Feminism will make it possible for the first time for men to be free . "
Thank you .
( Applause )
