Forward march!
I'm requesting-
Captain, I'd like to request that it be me who's the attorney-
That it be myself who’s assigned.
No, I'd like to request that it be I who am assigned-
"That it be I who am assigned"?
That's good. That's confidence-inspiring.
Good grammar there.
Captain, I'd like to request...
that I be the attorney assigned.
I'm Lieutenant Commander Galloway here to see Captain West.
Go right in, Commander. They're expecting you.
Thank you.
-Jo, come on in. - Thank you, sir.
Captain West, this is Lieutenant Commander Galloway.
-Jo, you know Commander Lawrence. - Yes, sir.
Captain, I appreciate you seeing me on such short notice.
- Would you like to sit down? - I'm fine, sir.
- Have a seat. - Okay.
I understand we had some trouble over the weekend down in Cuba?
Yes, sir. This past Friday, two Marines-
a Lance Corporal Harold Dawson and a Private Louden Downey-
entered the barracks room of a P.F.C. William Santiago and assaulted him.
Santiago died at the base hospital approximately an hour later.
The N.I.S. Agent who took Dawson and Downey's statements...
maintains they were trying to prevent Santiago...
from naming Dawson in a fence line shooting incident.
They're scheduled to have a hearing down in Cuba this afternoon at 1600.
- What's the problem? - Dawson and Downey...
are both recruiting poster Marines, and Santiago was known to be a screw-up.
I was thinking it sounded an awful lot like a Code Red.
Christ.
Sir, I'd like to have them moved up to Washington and assigned counsel-
someone who can really look into this-
someone who possesses not only the legal skill...
but a familiarity with the inner workings of the military.
In short, Captain, I'd like to suggest that...
I be the one who that-
that it be me who is assigned to represent them...
myself.
Commander Galloway, why don’t you get yourself a cup of coffee?
Thank you, sir. I'm fine.
I'd like you to leave the room so we can talk about you behind your back.
Certainly, sir.
I thought this Code Red shit wasn't going on anymore.
With the Marines at Gitmo, who knows what the hell goes on down there?
We better find out before the rest of the world does.
Damn thing could get messy.
All right, what about this Commander Galloway?
She's been working a desk in Internal Affairs...
for a little over a year now.
- Before that? - Disposed of three cases in two years.
Three cases in two years? Who's she handling, the Rosenbergs?
- She's not cut out for litigation. - She's a hell of an investigator.
In Internal Affairs she can crawl up a lawyer's ass with the best of them.
- But when it comes to trial work- - I know. All passion, no street smarts.
Bring her back in.
Commander, we're gonna have the defendants moved up here in the morning.
- Thank you, sir. - Division will assign them counsel.
-But not me. -From what I get from your colleagues...
you're much too valuable in your present assignment to be wasted...
in what I'm sure will boil down to a five-minute plea bargain...
and a week's worth of paperwork.
Sir, I think there might be more involved than that.
Don't worry about it.
I promise you Division will assign the right man for the job.
All right. Let's go. Let's get two.
- Sorry. - Nothing to be sorry about, Sherby.
You just look the ball into your glove.
Shooting two.
- Sorry. - You gotta trust me, Sherby.
Keep your eyes open, your chances of catching it increase by a factor often.
- Kaffee. - Let's try it again.
Dave, you seem distraught.
We were supposed to meet 15 minutes ago about the McDermott case.
You're stalling on this thing. Now we either do it now...
or, no kidding, Kaffee, I'm gonna hang your boy from a fucking yardarm!
Yardarm? Sherby, does the Navy still hang people from yardarms?
I don't think so.
Dave, Sherby doesn't think the Navy hangs people from yardarms anymore.
I'm gonna charge him with possession and being under the influence on duty.
You plead guilty, I'll recommend 30 days in the brig with loss of rank and pay.
It was oregano, Dave. It was $10 worth of oregano.
Yeah, well, your client thought it was marijuana.
My client's a moron. That's not against the law.
Kaffee, I got people to answer to just like you do. I'm gonna charge him.
With what, possession of a condiment?
- Kaffee. - I tried to help you out of this...
but if you ask for jail time, I'm gonna file a motion to dismiss.
- You won't get it. - I will get it.
And if the M.T.D. is denied, I'll file a motion...
seeking to obtain an evidentiary ruling in advance.
And after that, I'm gonna file against pretrial confinement.
And you're gonna spend the next three months going blind on paperwork...
because a signalman second-class bought and smoked a dime bag of oregano.
Let's go! Let's get two!
B misdemeanor, 20 days in the brig.
C misdemeanor, 15 days restricted duty.
I don't know why I'm agreeing to this.
'Cause you have wisdom beyond your years.
Morning.
Morning, Captain.
How's the baby, Sam?
I think she's getting ready to say her first word any day now.
How can you tell?
She just looks like she has something to say.
Excuse me. I'm sorry I'm late.
It's all right, Danny. I know you don't have a good excuse...
so I won't force you to come up with a bad one.
- Thank you, sir. - This first one's for you.
Seems you're moving up in the world.
Been requested by Division.
Requested to do what?
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
A Marine corporal named Dawson illegally fires a round from his weapon...
over the fence line and into Cuban territory.
- What's a fence line? - Sam.
A big wall separating the good guys from the bad guys.
- Teacher's pet. - P.F.C. William Santiago...
threatens to rat on Dawson to Naval Investigative Service.
Dawson and another member of his squad...
P.F.C. Louden Downey, go into Santiago's room...
tie him up, stuff a rag down his throat...
and an hour later, Santiago's dead.
Attending physician says the rag was treated with some kind of toxin.
They poisoned the rag?
- Not according to them. - What did they say?
Not much. They're being flown up here tomorrow...
and on Wednesday at 0600, you'll catch a transport down to Cuba for the day...
to find out what you can.
Meantime, go and see Lieutenant Commander Joanne Galloway...
with Internal Affairs.
Any questions?
Uh, the flight to Cuba- Was that 0600 in the morning, sir?
Seems important to Division that this one be handled by the book.
So I'm assigning co-counsel. Any volunteers?
No!
I got a stack of papers on my desk about a mile high.
- Work with Kaffee on this. - Doing what?
Kaffee will have this done in about four days.
Doing various administrative things.
Backup, whatever.
In other words, I have no responsibilities here whatsoever.
Right.
My kind of case.
Right.
Okay, but I've got to have that report by Wednesday.
- Hi. - Hold on. Hi.
Daniel Kaffee. I was told to me with, uh-
Lieutenant Commander Galloway.
About a briefing?
I'll call you back.
You're the attorney Division assigned?
I'm lead counsel. This is Sam Weinberg.
I have no responsibilities here whatsoever.
Come in, please. Have a seat.
Lieutenant, how long have you been in the Navy?
Going on nine months now.
And how long have you been out of law school?
A little over a year.
I see.
Have I done something wrong?
No. It’s just that when I petition Division to have counsel assigned...
I was hoping I'd be taken seriously.
No offense taken, in case you were wondering.
Commander, Lieutenant Kaffee is generally...
considered the best litigator in our office.
He's successfully plea-bargained 44 cases in nine months.
One more, I get a set of steak knives.
Have you ever been in a courtroom?
I once had my driver's license suspended.
Commander, from what I understand, if this thing goes to court...
they won’t need a lawyer, they'll need a priest.
No, they'll need a lawyer.
Dawson's family's been contacted.
Downey's closest living relative is Ginny Miller, his aunt.
She hasn't been contacted yet. Would you like me to take care of that?
Sure. If you feel like it.
One of the people you'll be seeing down there...
is the barracks C.O., Colonel Nathan Jessup.
I assume you’ve heard of him.
Who hasn't?
He's been in the papers lately. He's expected to be appointed...
director of operations of National Security Council.
- Really? - These are the letters...
that Santiago wrote in his eight months at Gitmo.
- That's Guantanamo Bay. - I knew that one.
He wrote to the fleet commander to the commandant of the Marine Corps.
Even his senator. He wanted to be transferred off the base.
No one was listening. Are you with me?
Yeah.
Finally, he wrote to the Naval Investigative Service...
where he offered information about Corporal Dawson's fence line shooting...
in exchange for a transfer.
Right. Is that all?
Lieutenant, this letter makes it look like...
your client had a motive to kill Santiago.
Got you. And Santiago is who?
The victim.
Write that down. Am I correct to assume these letters...
don't paint a flattering picture of Marine Corps life at Guantanamo Bay?
- Yes, among- - Am I further right in assuming...
investigation of this incident might embarrass the Security Council guy?
- Colonel Jessup. - Twelve years.
Sorry?
I'll get them to drop the conspiracy and conduct unbecoming.
Twelve years.
You haven't talked to a witness or looked at a piece of paper.
Pretty impressive, huh?
You're gonna have to go deeper than that.
Do you have some sort of jurisdiction here that I should know about?
My job is to make sure that you do your job.
I'm special counsel for Internal Affairs...
so my jurisdiction’s pretty much in your face.
Read the letters. I'll expect your report when you return from Cuba.
- Sure. - You're dismissed.
I always forget that part.
He's a little preoccupied.
Team's playing Bethesda Medical next week.
Tell your friend not to get cute down there.
The Marines in Guantanamo are fanatical.
About what?
About being Marines.
Dear sir...
my name is P.F.C. William T. Santiago.
I'm a Marine stationed at Marine barracks...
Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon Bravo.
I'm writing to inform you of my problems with my unit here in Cuba...
and to ask for your help.
I've fallen out on runs before for several reasons...
such as feeling dizzy or nauseated.
But on May 18, I'd fallen back about 20 or 30 yards...
going down rocky unstable hill.
My sergeant grabbed me and pushed me down the hill.
Then I saw all black, and the last thing I remembered was hitting the deck.
I was brought to the hospital where I was told I just had heat exhaustion.
I ask you to help me.
Please, sir. I just need to be transferred out of R.S.C.
Sincerely, P.F.C. William T. Santiago...
U.S. Marine Corps.
P.S. In exchange for my transfer off the base...
I'm willing to provide you with information about-
"The illegal fence line shooting that occurred the night of August 2."
Who the fuck is P.F.C. William T. Santiago?
Private Santiago is a member of Second Platoon Bravo, sir.
Yeah. Well, apparently he's not very happy down here in Shangri-la...
because he's written letters to everybody but Santa Claus...
asking for a transfer.
And now he's telling tales about a fence line shooting.
Matthew?
I'm appalled, sir.
You're appalled.
This kid broke the chain of command and ratted on a member of his unit...
to say nothing of the fact that he is a U.S. Marine...
and it would appear he can't run from here to there...
without collapsing from heat exhaustion.
What the fuck is going on in Bravo Company, Matthew?
Colonel, I think it would be better to hold this discussion in private.
That won't be necessary, Colonel. I can handle the situation, sir.
The same way you handled Curtis Bell? Don't interrupt me, Lieutenant!
- I'm still your superior officer. - And I'm yours, Matthew.
I wanna know what we're going to do about this.
I think Santiago should be transferred off the base immediately.
He's that bad, huh?
Not only that. But word of this letter is bound to get out.
He's gonna get his ass whipped.
Hmm. Transfer Santiago.
Yes. I'm sure you’re right.
I'm sure that's the thing to do.
Wait. I've got a better idea.
Let's transfer the whole squad off the base.
Let's- On second thought, Windward-
Let's transfer the whole Windward Division off the base.
John, go on out there and get those boys down off the fence.
They're packing their bags. Tom.
- Sir. - Get me the president on the phone.
We're surrendering our position in Cuba.
- Yes, sir. - Wait a minute, Tom.
Don't get the president just yet.
Maybe we should consider this for a second.
- Dismissed, Tom. - Yes, sir.
Maybe- and I'm just spit-balling here-
Maybe we have a responsibility as officers to train Santiago.
Maybe we as officers have a responsibility to this country...
to see that the men and women charged with its security...
are trained professionals.
Yes, I'm certain that I read that somewhere once.
And now I'm thinking, Colonel Markinson...
that your suggestion of transferring Santiago...
while expeditious and certainly painless...
might not be, in a manner of speaking...
the American way.
Santiago stays where he is.
We're gonna train the lad.
John, you're in charge.
Santiago doesn't make 4-6-4-6...
on his next proficiency and conduct report...
I'm going to blame you.
- Then I'm going to kill you. - Yes, sir.
I think that's a mistake, Colonel.
Matthew, I think I will have that word in private with you now.
John, that's all. Why don't we meet at the "O" club and have lunch...
and we'll talk about the training of young William?
I'd be delighted to hear any suggestions that you might have, sir.
- Dismissed. - Yes, sir.
Matthew, sit down. Please.
What do you think of Kendrick?
My opinion of him has nothing to do-
I think he's pretty much of a weasel myself...
but he's an awfully good officer.
And in the end, we see eye-to-eye on the best way to run a Marine Corps unit.
We're in the business of saving lives, Matthew.
That is a responsibility that we have to take pretty seriously.
And I believe that taking a Marine who is not quite up to the job...
and shipping him off to another assignment...
puts lives in danger.
Sit down, Matthew.
We go back a while.
We went to the Academy together. We were commissioned together.
We did our tours in Vietnam together.
But I've been promoted up through the chain...
with greater speed and success than you have.
Now, if that’s a source of tension...
or embarrassment for you...
I don't give a shit.
We're in the business of saving lives, Lieutenant Colonel Markinson.
Don't ever question my orders in front of another officer.
All the paperwork's in order.
- Step over there. - Yes, sir.
Hal, is this Washington, D.C.?
All right. Let's move.
Yes, sir.
- Got all of that one. - Excuse me.
I wanted to talk to you about Corporal Dawson and Private Downey.
- Say again? - Dawson and Downey.
Those names sound like they should mean something to me-
Dawson, Downey - your clients.
The Cuba thing. Yes! Dawson and Downey. Right.
I've done something wrong again, haven't I?
I was just wondering why two guys have been locked up...
since this morning while their lawyer's outside hitting a ball.
We need the practice.
That wasn't funny.
It was a little funny.
Would you be very insulted if I recommended to your supervisor...
that he assign different counsel?
- Why? - I don't think you’re fit to handle it.
You don't even know me. Ordinarily, it takes someone hours...
to discover I'm not fit to handle a defense.
Oh, come on. That was damn funny.
You're wrong.
I do know you.
Daniel Alistair Kaffee, born June 8, 1964...
at Boston Mercy Hospital.
Your father's Lionel Kaffee...
former Navy judge advocate and attorney general of the United States.
Died 1985.
You went to Harvard law. Then you joined the Navy...
probably because that's what your father wanted you to do.
And now you're just treading water for three years in the JAG Corps.
Just laying low till you can get out and get a real job.
If that’s the situation, that's fine. I won't tell anyone.
But it's my feeling that if this case is handled in the same...
fast-food, slick-ass, Persian bazaar manner...
with which you seem to handle everything else...
then something's gonna get missed.
And I wouldn't be doing my job if I allowed Dawson and Downey...
to spend any more time in prison than absolutely necessary...
because their attorney had predetermined the path of least resistance.
Wow.
I'm sexually aroused, Commander.
I don't think your clients murdered anyone.
What are you basing this on?
There was no intent.
The doctor's report says Santiago died of asphyxiation...
brought on by acute lactic acidosis...
and that the nature of the acidosis strongly suggests poison.
I don't know what any of that means, but it sounds pretty bad.
Santiago died at 1:00 a. m.
At 3:00, the doctor wasn’t able to determine the cause of death.
Two hours later, he said it was poison.
Oh, now I see what you’re saying.
It had to be Professor Plum in the library with a candlestick.
- I'm gonna talk to your supervisor. - Okay.
Go straight up Pennsylvania Avenue.
It's the big white house with the pillars in front.
- Thank you. - I don't think you’ll have much luck.
I was assigned by Division.
Somebody over there thinks I'm a pretty good lawyer.
So while I appreciate your interest and admire your enthusiasm...
I think I can handle things myself.
You know what a Code Red is?
What a pity.
- Morning, sir. - Morning.
Officer on deck!
Sir, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson, sir!
Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon Bravo.
Someone hasn't been working and playing well with others, Harold.
Sir, yes, sir!
Sir, P.F.C. Louden Downey, sir!
I'm Daniel Kaffee. This is Sam Weinberg.
Sit down.
- This your signature? - Yes, sir.
You don't have to call me "sir. " Is this your signature?
Sir, yes, sir.
You certainly don't need to do it twice in one sentence.
- What's a Code Red? - It is a disciplinary engagement.
What's that mean?
A Marine falls out of line, it's up to the men in his unit to get him on track.
- What's a garden variety Code Red? - Sir?
Harold, you say, "sir," and I turn around and look for my father.
Danny, Daniel, Kaffee.
Garden variety. Typical. What's basic Code Red?
Sir, a Marine refuses to bathe on a regular basis...
the men in his squad will give him a G.I. shower.
What's that?
Scrub brushes, Brillo pads, steel wool.
Beautiful.
Was the attack on Santiago a Code Red?
Yes, sir.
Does he ever talk?
Sir, P.F.C. Downey will answer any direct questions you ask him.
Swell.
Private Downey, the rag you stuffed in Santiago's mouth-
- Was there poison on it? - No, sir.
Silver polish, turpentine, antifreeze?
No, sir. We were just gonna shave his head, sir.
When all of the sudden-
We saw blood dripping down his mouth...
and we pulled the tape off and there was blood all down his face, sir.
That's when Lance Corporal Dawson called the ambulance.
Did anyone see you call the ambulance?
No, sir.
Were you there when the ambulance got there?
Yes, sir. That's when we were taken under arrest.
The night of August 2, did you fire a shot across the fence line into Cuba?
- Yes, sir. - Why?
- My mirror engaged, sir. - His mirror?
Every American sentry post has a Cuban counterpart, called "mirrors. "
Lance Corporal's claiming that his mirror was about to fire at him.
Santiago's letter to the N.I.S...
said you fired illegally.
He's saying that the guy, the mirror-
He never made a move.
You see what I'm getting at?
If Santiago didn't have anything on you, then why did you give him a Code Red?
'Cause he broke the chain of command, sir.
- He what? - He went outside of his unit, sir.
If he had a problem, he should have spoken to me, sir.
- Then his sergeant, then commander- - Yeah. All right.
Did you assault Santiago with the intent of killing him?
- No, sir. - What was your intent?
- To train him, sir. - Train him to do what?
Train him to think of his unit before himself- to respect the code.
What's the code?
Unit, Corps, God, Country.
I beg your pardon?
Unit, Corps, God, Country, sir.
The government of the United States...
wants to charge you two with murder...
and you want me to go to the prosecutor...
with "Unit, Corps, God, Country"?
That's our code, sir.
It's your code.
We'll be back.
You guys need anything- books, papers, cigarettes, ham sandwich?
Sir, no, thank you, sir.
Harold, I think there's a concept you better start warming up to.
Sir?
I'm the only friend you've got.
Smiling Jack Ross.
- Welcome to the big time. - You think so?
Let's hope, for Dawson and Downey, you practice law better than play softball.
Unfortunately for those two, I don't do anything better than play softball.
- I'm out of here, Janelle. - Bye.
- See you when I get back from Cuba. - Say hi to Castro for me.
Will do. What are we looking at?
They plead guilty, we drop the conspiracy and conduct unbecoming.
- Twenty years. They're home in half. - I want 12.
- Can't do it. - They called the ambulance.
I don't care if they called the Avon lady. They killed a Marine.
The rag was tested for poison. The autopsy, lab reports.
They say the same thing: maybe, maybe not.
Chief of Internal Medicine at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Hospital...
says he's sure.
What do you know about Code Reds?
Oh, man.
- We off the record? - Tell me.
I'm gonna give you the 12 years.
Before you go getting yourself into trouble tomorrow, you should know...
the platoon commander, Lieutenant Jonathan Kendrick...
held a meeting with the men and specifically...
told them not to touch Santiago.
- We still playing hoops tomorrow night? - Do we have a deal?
I'll talk to you when I get back.
- Hi there. - Any luck getting me replaced?
Is there anyone in this command you don't either drink or play ball with?
- Commander- - Listen. I came to make peace.
Got off on the wrong foot. What do you say? Friends?
I brought Downey some comic books he was asking for.
The kid, Kaffee, I swear he doesn't know where he is.
- Doesn't even know why he's arrested. - Commander.
- You can call me Joanne. -Joanne.
- Or Jo. - Yes.
Jo, if you ever speak to a client of mine again without my permission...
I'll have you disbarred.
- Friends? - I had authorization.
- From where? - Downey's closest living relative.
Ginny Miller. His aunt on his mother's side.
You got authorization from Aunt Ginny?
I gave her a call like you asked.
Very nice woman. We spoke for about an hour.
You got authorization from Aunt Ginny.
Perfectly within my province.
Does Aunt Ginny have a barn? We could hold the trial there.
I can sew the costumes. Maybe his Uncle Goober can be the judge.
I'm going to Cuba with you tomorrow.
And the hits just keep on coming.
- How's it going, Luther? - Another day, another dollar, captain.
- You gotta play them as they lay. - What goes around comes around.
- Can't beat 'em, join 'em. - At least I got my health.
Well, then you got everything. See you tomorrow, Luther.
Not if I see you first.
Now don't forget. When Sally gets back, you're my witness.
The baby spoke. My daughter said a word.
Your daughter made a sound, Sam. I'm not sure it was a word.
Come on, now. It was definitely a word.
You heard her. The girl sat here, pointed and said, " Pa. "
She did. She said, " Pa. "
She was pointing at a mailbox, Sam.
That's right, pointing as if to say, " Pa, look. A mailbox. "
Jack Ross came to see me today. He offered me the 12 years.
- Oh, that's what you wanted, right? - I know, I know.
I mean, I guess I'll take it. I'll take it.
- So- - It took about 45 seconds.
He barely put up a fight.
Danny, take the 12 years. It's a gift.
You don't believe their story, do you?
You think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
I believe every word of their story...
and I think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
- See you tomorrow. - Okay.
Don't forget to wear the whites. Very hot down there.
I don't like the whites.
Nobody likes the whites, but we're going to Cuba.
- You got Dramamine? - Dramamine keeps you cool?
No, Dramamine keeps you from throwing up. You get sick when you fly.
I get sick when I fly because I'm afraid of crashing into a large mountain.
I don't think Dramamine will help.
I got some oregano. I hear that works pretty good.
You know, Ross said the strangest thing to me right before I left.
He said the platoon commander Lieutenant Jonathan Kendrick...
had a meeting with the men and told them not to touch Santiago.
So?
I never mentioned Kendrick. I don't even know who he is.
Ah, what the hell. I'll see you tomorrow.
Lieutenants Kaffee and Weinberg, Commander Galloway.
I'm Corporal Barnes. I'm to escort you to the windward side of the base.
- Thank you. - I got some camouflage jackets here.
- I suggest you both put them on. - Camouflage jackets?
Yes, sir. We'll be riding pretty close to the fence line.
The Cubans see an officer wearing white...
they think it might be someone they want to take a shot at.
Good call, Sam.
We'll just hop on the ferry. We'll be there in no time.
- Wait. We gotta take a boat? - Yes, sir.
- To get to the other side of the bay. - Nobody said anything about a boat.
- Is there a problem, sir? - No, no problem.
Just not crazy about boats.
Jesus Christ, Kaffee, you're in the Navy, for crying out loud.
- Nobody likes her very much. - Yes, sir!
Nathan Jessup. Come on in.
Thank you, sir. Daniel Kaffee. I'm the attorney for Dawson and Downey.
This is Lieutenant Commander Joanne Galloway.
- Pleasure meeting you, Commander. - Observing and evaluating, sir.
Lieutenant Sam Weinberg. He'll be assisting.
- Sir. - This is my X.O., Colonel Markinson...
and platoon leader Lieutenant Kendrick.
I've asked them to join us. Sit down, please.
- Lieutenant Kaffee. - Colonel Markinson.
I had the pleasure of meeting your father once.
I was a teenager. He spoke at my high school.
Lionel Kaffee?
- Yes, sir. - Well, what do you know?
John, this man's dad once made a lot of enemies down in your neck of the woods.
Jefferson v. Madison County School District.
Folks down there said a black girl couldn't go to an all-white school.
Lionel Kaffee said, "Well, we'll just see about that. "
How the hell is your dad, Danny?
He passed away seven years ago, sir.
Don't I feel like the fuckin' asshole.
Not at all.
Well, what can we do for you, Danny?
Uh, not much, sir.
This is really a formality more than anything else.
JAG Corps insists that we interview all the relevant witnesses.
The JAG Corps can be demanding that way.
John will take you out and show you what you want to see.
After that we can all hook up for lunch.
- How does that sound? Good. - Fine, sir.
I understand you had a meeting with your men that afternoon.
- Yes, I did. - What did you guys talk about?
I told the men that we had an informer among us...
and that despite any desire they might have to seek retribution...
Private Santiago was not to be harmed in anyway.
- What time was that meeting? - 1600.
That's 4:00.
Sam, we should make sure somebody gets this to his parents.
- We don't need it anymore. - Right.
Lieutenant Kendrick, may I call you John?
No, you may not.
Have I done something to offend you?
No, I like all you Navy boys.
Every time we gotta go someplace to fight, you fellas always give us a ride.
Lieutenant Kendrick, do you think Santiago was murdered?
Commander, I believe in God and His Son Jesus Christ.
And because I do, I can say this:
Private Santiago is dead, and that is a tragedy.
But he is dead because he had no code.
He is dead because he had no honor, and God was watching.
How do you feel about that theory?
Sounds good. Let's move on.
Are you planning on doing any investigating...
or are you just gonna take the guided tour?
I'm pacing myself.
They were running around for three hours...
looking for anything white they could wave in the air.
Some of these people surrendered to a crew from CNN.
Well, walk softly and carry an armored tank division, I always say.
- That was delicious. Thank you. - My pleasure, sir.
Colonel, I do have to ask you a couple of questions about September 6.
Shoot.
On the morning of the sixth, you were contacted by an N.I.S. agent...
who said that Santiago tipped him off to an illegal fence line shooting.
- Yes. - Santiago would reveal the person...
- in exchange for a transfer. - Yes.
If you feel there are any details that I'm missing...
you should feel free to speak up.
Thank you.
Now, at this point you called Lieutenant Colonel Markinson...
and Lieutenant Kendrick into your office.
- Is that right? - Yes.
What happened?
We agreed that, for his own safety, Santiago should be transferred off base.
Santiago was set to be transferred.
On the first available flight to the States...
0600 the next morning.
Five hours too late, as it turned out.
Yeah.
All right. That's all I have. Thanks very much for your time.
Corporal's waiting with the Jeep. He'll take you back to the flight line.
- Thank you, sir. - Wait. I've got some questions.
- No, you don't. - Yes, I do.
- No, you don't. - On the morning that Santiago died...
did you meet with Dr. Stone between 3:00 and 5:00?
Of course I met with the doctor. One of my men was dead.
See? The man was dead. Let's go.
I'm just wondering if you’ve ever heard the term "Code Red. "
I've heard the term, yes.
This past February, you received a cautionary memo...
from the commander-in-chief of the Atlantic fleet...
warning that the practice of enlisted men...
disciplining their own wasn't to be condoned by officers.
Well, I submit to you that whoever wrote that memo...
has never faced the working end...
of a Soviet-made Cuban AK-47 assault rifle.
However, the directive having come from the commander...
I gave it its due attention.
- What is your point, Jo? - She has no point.
She often has no point. It's part of her charm.
- We're out of here. Thank you. - I think Code Reds still go on here.
- Do Code Reds still happen here? -Jo, he doesn't need to answer that.
- Yes, he does. - No, he really doesn't.
Yeah, he really does.
You know, it just hit me.
She outranks you, Danny.
- Yes, sir. - I wanna tell you something.
And listen up, 'cause I really mean this.
You're the luckiest man in the world.
There is nothing on this earth sexier- believe me, gentlemen-
than a woman that you have to salute in the morning.
Promote 'em all, I say, 'cause this is true:
If you haven't gotten a blowjob from a superior officer...
well, you’re just letting the best in life pass you by.
Colonel, the practice of Code Reds is still condoned by officers-
My problem is that I'm a colonel, so I'll go on taking cold showers...
until they elect some gal president.
I need an answer to my question, sir.
Take caution in your tone, Commander.
I'm a fair guy, but this fucking heat is making me absolutely crazy.
You wanna ask me about Code Reds? On the record...
I tell you I discourage the practice...
in accordance with the commander's directive.
Off the record, I tell you it is an invaluable part...
of close-infantry training.
And if it happens to go on without my knowledge, so be it.
I run my unit how I run my unit.
You wanna investigate me, roll the dice and take your chances.
I eat breakfast 300 yards from 4,000 Cubans who are trained to kill me.
So don't think for one second that you can come down here...
flash a badge...
and make me nervous.
